Okay. If I scroll down to see how we are filling this,
we are actually doing the following: we are doing select distinct, here.
We are actually taking this,
we are trying to take the date and retype in this format.
That SQL function, which is taking payment date and saying
TO_CHAR DATE is converting a long date into this year year,
year, month, months, day format to act as the key for that thing.
Then we do all our extractions.
We also do something fancy for the is_weekend,
or a weekend, I'm sorry.
You have a function you can extract,
but you have a function called the day of the week.
At this day of the week function,
we're going to say when it is six or seven,
which is which is the sixth the Saturday and Sunday,
then true it is a weekend, else it's false.
So here, the date function is using a little bit of fancy SQL functions,
but not all the data tables are like that.
I can actually go with you through each dimensions like dim date,
dim customer, dim movie, dim store, factSales.
So we're creating those.
But it's actually equally easy to look at the select statements for them.
Okay. So, if you look for example at the customer table here,
this is the customer table.
We will see that we are getting all the usual suspects here,
but we have something starting from address address two,
and then we have district.
The district actually is not in the customer,
it's in the address.
So we're actually denormalizing,
and we're pushing these columns inside here,
getting rid of this relationship.
We're putting them here.
You see this district and city.
City is not even here, city is here.
We're also putting it up.
Country is here, and we're also putting the country.
So, we actually collapsed using this address ID,
we get all the information that we like,
and push it inside.
So, we're joining the customer on the address, the city,
and the country, getting all the data denormalized inside.
So, it's going to be convenient for a business user to use.
Similarly, for the movie itself,
we are getting inside something like the language,
in which language this,
it was also noted,
we're getting it inside.
For the movie, I think we're not doing anything fancy more than that.
Also, for the store,
we're getting all the addressees denormalized.
But also the store has staff.
The store, or is the store here has staff.
So we actually put the name of the staff,
the people who work there in the store.
I think here it is.
There must be a field here pointing to the managers staff ID.
So each store has a manager,
and the manager belongs to this stuff here.
So we're putting this inside here.
Then, we finally have our facts table.
Here, we're going to take the payment.
That is the main constituent of the facts table,
but we're going to join it with the rental and the inventory.
So we're going to take these two inside here,
and actually this will give us a direct relation to the film.
This will give us a direct relation to the film here. Very good.
So, if you've followed all those select statements of how we're denormalizing.
So we did two things;
we denormalized and we did a little bit of transformation
here with SQL functions to put new fields like the month and the day and so on.
Perhaps, you might be asking or you are keeping asking what about this insert into?
So the idea is, this is just the E part.
So the select is the E part.
This is the E, because we're selecting the data from the original table.
The T part is actually either the extraction here,
that we're building new columns,
or that we are denormalizing by pulling in data denormalizing it inside other tables.
So, if these are the E and the T,
we have the L remaining.
The L actually is the insert into.
So whatever we get from here,
we go and insert it into a new table.
So, thus the name the ETL.
So, in this step five,
we're actually doing the ETL from the third normal form to the star schema.
I hope you also followed that we actually had a naming convention,
that we have dimension date,
dimension movie, dimension customer, and so forth.
For the fact, we have the prefix fact.
Now, in this schema,
you have one main fact table that
constitutes what you want to present to a business user.